So before I was the pastor of this church, I was the family pastor and I spent a lot of time working with kids.
Little kids and middle school kids and high school kids and working and often I would have parents call me and say, hey, can we sit and talk with you because we're going through this disagreement.
And so the mom and the dad would sit in my office and they'd say, pastor, you know, my wife thinks that we should give our kids soy milk, but I think we should give them cow's milk and we can't get past this argument we're having.
Or you know, my wife says, you know, we shouldn't give an iPhone until they're 16, but my husband just bought him a new one and he's only eight.
And now we have this conflict.
We have a conflict over the food we're feeding them and the technology we're giving them.
And then it's dating.
Okay.
So he thinks she can date already.
And I think she should never date.
And watching this couple who got married and loved each other.
And then a hundred little issues begin to divide the family.
And the most important thing
is not what you decide about the type of milk you give your kids, what their bedtime is, or what you do with technology or when they date.
The most important things are your kids see a loving marriage, a husband and a wife who love each other and care for each other.
And so I would always say to these couples, make sure that you keep the main thing, the main thing.
Don't die on the wrong hill.
Don't get dogmatic about 100 little things.
No, the most important thing your kids are gonna need to grow and develop as young men and women is to see this love and unity of this team that's raising them in the ways of God.
Let's make sure we keep the main thing, the main thing.
And you know, it's not just 100 little things that divide marriages and families.
It's 100 little things that divide churches.
And the church is the family of God.
And so we're,
Looking here at this letter, this 2000 year letter from Paul to Timothy.
In the church that's divided, there's quarrels, there's controversies, there's struggle, there's all these different meaningless conversations in almost every chapter of this letter from Paul to Timothy.
In 1st and 2nd Timothy, he discusses, there's conflict, there's controversy.
And it's all these little things that are getting in the way of the big thing.
Keep the main thing, the main thing.
This is what Paul is speaking to Timothy.
And I wanna show you just a simple image.
Now, you're gonna see that I have the gift of being an artist.
I mean, look at this brilliant drawing.
I'll autograph it for you later.
This is a picture of what Paul invites the church to think about when it comes to keeping the main thing, the main thing.
He says that we are in Christ.
Over 170 times, Paul uses phrase that we
Together our in Christ, what does He mean?
We've been invited into a relationship with God, the Father, the Son and the Spirit.
We've been invited to the fellowship of the Trinity.
Jesus said, as I am the Father and He's in me, now you can be in me and you can be with us.
And here's the crazy thing, if we've been invited to be in Christ, forgiven and set free and adopted as part of the family of God, if I've been united with Christ and you've been united with Christ, that means we're connected to each other
in the same way that we're connected to Jesus.
Whoa.
That might take a minute to process, but the person you're sitting next to, if they're in Christ and you're in Christ, you're as close to them as you are to Jesus.
This invitation to be part of not just an individual relationship with God, but a part of a family that's all connected to God and each other.
And if there's a hundred little issues we disagree on,
We need to remember we're in Christ.
Let's keep the main thing, the main thing.
It's the love and unity of the family of God that will draw people to this place and to God.
Jesus said, Father, I pray that they could be one, all those who believe in me.
They could be one as you and I are one so that the whole world will know that you sent me.
That the way we handle our little misunderstandings, well,
is either gonna attract people who don't know Jesus or repel them.
And so Paul is gonna speak very powerfully into Timothy's life about all these little things that divide to make sure that he keeps the main thing, the main thing.
And he's gonna delve into issues of politics, issues of gender, issues of power, issues of authority, issues that, you know, we don't have to deal with anymore today.
Thank God.
No, that's why we're gonna deal with some really challenging stuff today.
So let's see what,
God's word has to say to us.
First Timothy, chapter two, verse one.
I urge you then, first of all, that petitions and prayers and intercession and thanksgiving be made for all people, for kings and all those in authority that we may live peaceful and quiet lives in all godliness and holiness.
And this is good and pleases God our savior who wants all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth.
For there is one God and one mediator between God and mankind, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all people.
And this has now been witnessed to at the proper time.
And for this purpose, I was appointed the Herald and an apostle.
I am telling the truth.
I'm not lying.
And a true and faithful teacher of the Gentiles.
Paul says to Timothy, hey, I want you to know that first of all, you should be praying.
for all kings and all leaders and authority, so that, so that we can live peaceful lives as Christians, so that we can share the goodness of the gospel that Jesus came for all people, so that we can tell people that God wants everyone to come to repentance.
There's no one God looked at and goes, I don't want them.
No, everyone has been invited into that circle, into the family of God, into forgiveness, into redemption.
Aren't you grateful for that, right?
This is what the church is.
It's an invitation to everybody.
And then he says,
And we have one mediator between God and man, this man Jesus.
That means you don't have to pray through a priest or a dead saint.
You could pray directly to God through his son Jesus.
And that means you have 24 seven access to the very throne of God, the power of God, the presence of God.
And Paul says, this is something that we need to take stock in as Christians.
This is such a beautiful and important truth.
And so we wanna be people of prayer.
Now,
If you see verse one, he says, first of all, so in order of first importance, when you gather together as God's people, I want you to be praying and I want you to be praying for kings and people in authority.
Now, maybe that makes you go, well, maybe I have no problem praying for kings and leaders and people that I like and I agree with.
I have a problem praying for people I don't like with.
So if I don't like with them, I don't have to pray for them.
And here's the question we should ask when we read that passage.
Who was king during the time this letter was written?
His name was Nero.
He was one of the Caesars.
And he's notorious in history for killing Christians in horrible ways.
Paul is telling the church, I want you to pray for Nero.
I want you to intercede for Nero.
I want you to give thanksgiving for Nero.
I want you to offer petitions so that in some way God might work and shape his heart so that the Christian gospel can expand.
And you're like, well, how can you pray for someone like that?
And let's take that application 2,000 years later into the present.
Are there certain presidents or leaders you have a difficult time praying for?
I mean, Bush, Obama, Trump, Biden, Trump,
These are leaders or kings, if you will, people in authority.
And we're commanded to pray for them and give thanks, give an intercede for them.
And so one of the questions as we think about the weight of the application of the scripture is when we gather together, we're commanded to pray and sometimes, well, it's difficult to pray for people.
And sometimes it's so easy to go, you know, the people I voted for I can pray for, and everyone else I can criticize.
But that's what our tribes tell us.
What God's word tells us, you pray for all men.
and all leaders in authority.
And so as we think about this verse today, we go, okay, I'm gonna let the way of that scripture rest on me.
And then I hope it convicts me to the place where I can pray.
And ultimately, I have a friend who describes the presidents this way, 44, 45, 46, 47.
He just calls them numbers because he's like in the grand scheme of things, like, where's Nero, by the way?
And who is Caesar?
I mean, all you know about Caesar today is it's a salad you ordered restaurant or hotel you stay at in Las Vegas.
But back in the day, Caesar was the man.
Caesar was the one in authority control.
I'm gonna show you a picture of a Roman coin.
This is a dener.
It's a day's wage and on the inscription is the Caesar and it says Caesar is Lord.
Caesar is God.
Caesar is the ultimate authority.
He's the one in control and Christians had to
submit to that leadership and deal with that persecution.
But yet they were commanded to pray and they prayed and watch what happens.
Over the next 300 years, the Roman coins changed.
And here was the inscription of a coin around 300 AD.
It has the image of a cross on it.
Now Caesar is no longer Lord.
Jesus is Lord because the Bible describes
That God is in control of history.
History is his story.
And Daniel says, all the kingdoms of the world will rise and fall.
All the leaders will come and go, but the kingdom of God will surpass all of them.
Like a little stone cut out of mountain.
At the end of the day, all the kingdoms of the world will be kingdoms of our Lord Jesus Christ.
He is king, it's his kingdom.
That's why we can pray with a sense of freedom.
He is in control of history.
Isn't that this good news?
See, our world tells us, oh no, it's bad.
Oh no, this person or that person is doing all these things.
And as Christians we say, no, God is the one who's ultimately in control.
And so we can pray for all people and trust that God is at work.
And if we can't pray, it reveals false allegiances in our lives that we have to examine and repent of and continue to grow in that great.
So what do Christians do as citizens of a country?
What's our obligation?
How do we live in a country like they lived in the Roman Empire?
How do we live now in the United States of America?
Well, we have a couple of guiding principles and here's one of them, Romans chapter 13.
Let everyone be subject to governing authorities for there is no authority except that's which God has established.
The authorities that exist have been established by God.
Consequently, whoever rebels against the authority is rebelling against what God has instituted and those who do so will bring judgment on
themselves.
And so as Christians, we are citizens of the kingdom of heaven, but we're also citizens of the nation that we live in.
And we should abide by those laws so that we can live a peaceful and quiet life, Paul says, so that the gospel can go out.
And we wanna be exemplary citizens.
We wanna be the type of people that people look out like, you know, that's a person, they don't just pick up trash on the street, but they're polite to people, they're respectful to people, they follow the law, they don't do things for their own advantage.
Wow, those people in that country, the Christians, they really stand out.
But then the question is, well, what happens if the government is leaving in an oppressive way?
What happens if the government is challenging or coercing Christians to live in a way that's not the gospel, to pick the allegiance between their kingdom and God's kingdom?
And well, we did a Q&A last night.
We collected your questions because really first and second Timothy are a collection of questions that back and forth between Paul and Timothy.
And one of the main topics and questions was how do we deal with some of the distance we feel in our world today?
And so I wanna share with you a little bit about what we talked about last night.
And so the Bible has this beautiful legacy of what you might call civil disobedience where followers of God, followers of Jesus chose to stand against an authority that was
causing them to do something they thought was sinful.
And we're gonna talk about that practice and that balance because we're gonna see the command to honor authority, but also the command to not yield to authority in certain areas of life.
And sometimes as Christians, we don't know what to do with that nuance.
It's like, well, what do I do?
And I just wanna give you a quick example.
Do ambulance drivers ever exceed the speed limit?
they break a lesser law to fulfill a greater law.
And so we're gonna see some of these things through the Bible.
And it should give us, again, a chance to understand spiritual insight into the scripture.
So the first act of civil disobedience against a governing authority in the Bible are five women in the book of Exodus.
Two midwives, Shippra, Pua, a mom, Moses' mom, Jacobed, Moses' sister, Maryam, and the daughter of the Pharaoh who issued the edict.
These five women stood against an order to kill every Hebrew baby boy.
They knew that it was a command.
They knew it was the law.
They said, no.
I'm not gonna keep that command.
I'm gonna, in a nonviolent way, defy that authority and hide these babies.
Moses is born, the Exodus happens.
That's just one example, the first example in the Bible.
And then we see men like Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego saying, I'm not gonna bow down to the king.
If you have to kill us, you're gonna kill us, but we're gonna defy that unjust law that forces us to bow down to a God that is not our God.
And then we see a woman named Esther who violates Persian
law to appear before a king in threat of death after prayer and fasting.
And she advocates for her people and she saves millions of Jewish people from annihilation.
We see these acts of nonviolent resistance.
We see it in the New Testament as the apostles are told, you cannot preach in Jesus' name.
And they say, judge for yourself what is right or wrong, but we cannot help but speak Jesus' name.
So if you have to arrest us, if you have to beat us, do what you have to do, but we serve King Jesus.
And our allegiance is to him first.
And then you look at the role of Christian history and you'll see moments like this in Nazi Germany, the Ten Boom family.
When the law said that you could not house quarter Jews, this family hid Jews against German law.
They were caught, they were arrested, they were sent to concentration camps, and only one survived that concentration camp.
Her name was Corey Tenboom.
If you want to read her biography, The Hiding Place, it's an incredible story of the faith and perseverance of a family who said, no, Jesus is our king.
And not just there, but we see in Eastern,
Europe, when I was in college, we saw this beautiful revolution.
It was called the Velvet Revolution because when guards in Germany and Romania and Czechoslovakia drew guns, Christians stood with lit candles, singing songs and reading Bible verses, and communism fell, now with a whole bunch of bullets.
But with the people of God saying, no, we should be free to worship God in this place.
And so we're gonna stand here and we're gonna trust in our God to defy the King and God is gonna work and move.
And so some beautiful moments of.
of this rich history that we have.
We see this in the civil rights movement.
We see it in South African apartheid, this nonviolent resistance to apartheid led by an Anglican bishop named Desmond Tutu.
We see the Truth and Reconciliation Project of men and women who said, yes, we are gonna stand for justice where tyranny and defiance or tyranny and anarchy are trying to crush our freedom.
So as Christians, we have this challenge.
Can we be the people who when we see a police officer, we can say, thank you for your service, thank you for keeping us safe, we pray for you, we love you.
And at the same time, when we see something really broken in our, will we write our congressman and say, you know, I voted for you, but this is happening.
And I just wanna say as a Christian in my community, I wanna speak for those who can't speak for themselves when it comes to my right to express my own faith, when it comes to the protection of life, when it comes to the justice for marginalized people, I wanna use my voice.
And both things can be true
At the same time, how do I love and serve and pray for those leaders?
And how do I actively work to represent the kingdom of God when those allegiances are tested?
And I think speaker and pastor and author John Tyson, he has a little tweet for every new president when they're elected.
And I love this.
This is his way to say God is my primary allegiance.
He sent this to Biden and to Trump.
Congratulations to President Biden.
I make the same commitment to you.
I do to all presidents.
I will pray for you often, support you where I can and defy you where I must.
Such a simple statement.
I will pray for you because I'm commanded to in the Bible and I will support and honor you every time I can because the Bible calls me that as a good citizen of this country.
But I will also defy you where I must because I have a greater allegiance to a King.
And Paul is saying to Timothy, when you gather together,
be praying for every one of these leaders, even if they don't agree, even if they oppress you and you can stand for the kingdom of God.
And then look at verse eight.
Therefore I want men everywhere to pray, lifting up holy hands without anger or disputing.
I also want women to dress modestly with decency and propriety adorning themselves, not with elaborate hairstyles or gold or pearls or expensive clothes, but with good deeds appropriate for women who profess to worship God.
Paul says, the first thing I want you to do when you gather is to pray, pray for all kinds of people.
And men, men of the house, don't raise your hands to fight.
Raise your hands to pray.
What a great picture.
The guys in Ephesus were fighting with each other.
They were arguing over a hundred little things.
It was creating a sense of disunity.
They all did little pet doctrines and projects and issues.
And Paul's like, put down your fists and stop your smack talking.
Men,
Lift up your hands in prayer, lead your church, lead your family, lead your kids, lead them in prayer.
What would happen if the men of this church were known for the way they prayed, for the way you led your families, for you led the way in our cities?
Something powerful would happen in this community.
And he says to women, hey, when you gather, don't draw attention to yourself.
You're not here to say, I want here to impress you.
I'm here to glorify him.
Don't look at me, look at him.
It doesn't mean ladies, you don't dress up.
It doesn't mean you don't look nice.
It means you don't try to attract attention away from God toward yourself.
That's not what church is for.
It's not a fashion show.
Your beauty doesn't come from the outside.
The Bible says your beauty comes from your spirit, the inside of who you are, the character and the beauty of who you are.
And modesty is humility expressed in the way that you dress.
And so he's like, guys,
Church is not a place you fight over all these little things.
We're a family and church is not a fashion show where you try to outdo the person next to you.
Church is a place where we gather together as a family to pray.
And so I think, right?
I think for just a minute, we could just do what the Bible says and we could pray.
And so we're just gonna pray for all of our leaders and those who are in authority.
We're gonna pray for our church, we're gonna pray for our fans, we're gonna pray for other governments and things going on around the world.
And let's just do what the Bible says as we gather together.
Let's take a moment and let's pray.
Father, we gather together as your family.
We know we don't see everything the same way.
We all have different lived experiences in different ways.
to faith in you and to come to this family, but we have your word and your word says to pray for all those in authority.
So today, we pray for President Trump, for Vice President Vance.
We pray God that you would give them wisdom.
We pray God you would surround them by your people, that you would direct them through advisors like Daniel and Esther and Joseph, godly wisdom.
God, we pray for John Robertson, the Supreme Court, we pray that as they
preside over cases of law that you would give them the heart of justice that comes from your very heart.
We pray for our Congress, our House of Representatives, our Senate, those elected officials in our communities, God.
You would give them a sense of unity.
You'd give them a sense of righteousness and justice that our nation could live at peace so the gospel can go out.
Father, we pray for the governor of our state, Governor DeSantis.
Our B.S.O.
Sheriff, Gregory, pray for our school board members and all the students and kids that are being raised in that environment, that there would be a godly influence.
We pray for every police officer, every paramedic, every firefighter, that you would protect them, that this would be a place that's safe, that would prosper and thrive.
We pray for pastors of the churches of South Florida, that you would give them a supernatural unity and a heart for righteousness and a prophetic word for your church,
God, we pray for every father, every mother that they would lead in their homes, in this beautiful spirit led wisdom and unity.
Father, we pray that you would draw people to yourself.
People that are famous and people no one knows.
People in this nation and people in nations across the world.
We think of people who are right now being oppressed, persecuted for their faith in Iran and North Korea and China.
people being arrested for worshiping what we're doing right now.
Protect them, help the church to thrive, bring new leaders in place so the gospel can thrive.
And we pray you would do this in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Now what would happen if we did that every day?
And we gather, we remember to pray for leaders and those who are in authority.
How might God work in our nation?
in our world, we are commanded to pray for all of those leaders.
And now in verse 11, Paul continues.
He says, a woman should learn in quietness and full submission.
I do not permit a woman to teach or to assume authority over a man.
She must be quiet.
For Adam was formed first and then Eve.
And Adam was not one deceived, it was the woman who was deceived and became a sinner.
But women will be saved through childbearing if they continue in faith, love,
and holiness with propriety, and all God's people said, huh?
Yeah, I know you were thinking it.
I know you were thinking it.
And you're like, oh pastor, man, you're in trouble.
There are landmines everywhere.
So here's the question.
What do we do when we get to a part of the Bible like this?
Cause this can trigger us in a hundred different ways.
Like maybe you had a really bad church experience growing up, or maybe you had some men in your life who were toxic and domineering, and maybe you had some women in your life who were controlled and manipulative.
And so this men, women thing is a patriarchy, feminism thing.
Like it's a big thing and not just in our world, but back then.
And when we get to scriptures like this, sometimes we just wanna go like, I don't get it.
I just don't wanna read it.
I don't wanna think about it.
But as the people of God, we gotta go, wait a second.
The best way to understand this, to interpret this, the best way to interpret the Bible is to use the Bible.
A single verse is part of a constellation of other verses that give us context.
This is called hermeneutics, the way we interpret a passage of scripture.
And so we're gonna interpret this passage of scripture based on what the Bible says about the roles of men and women.
We're gonna interpret based on what's happened in the culture of Ephesus, and we're gonna base it on the actual original language and what it's saying.
And all three of these things will help give us like a, oh,
And so I want you to put on your thinking cascus.
We're gonna dig in a little deep here.
So here's the first thing.
We know that Paul was not misogynist.
We know that Paul didn't treat women as second-class citizens.
How do we know that?
Well, we look at all of his writings.
He used women in church planting.
He used a woman named Phoebe to deliver the letter of Romans and likely explained it to those she was delivering it to.
He empowered a woman named Lydia to start a house church, the first church in Philippi in her house.
And she was the patron who funded his mission work as he went around the ancient world.
This church in Ephesus was planted by Aquila and Priscilla.
Priscilla being the leading voice of correcting Apollos and his doctrine when he didn't understand the spirit of God.
She was a church planter.
She was a patron.
She hosted house churches.
We know that women would speak in prophesy in the church of Corinth publicly.
So it's not Paul saying, hey, women should never talk and never lead and never do anything.
No, this means something else.
So how do we understand this?
Well, biblical context we see women leading, serving, using their gifts in all these ways.
There's also an historical context.
This is written to the Ephesians.
In Ephesians there was a goddess
Her name was Artemis.
One of the seven wonders of the ancient world was a temple that was built in Ephesus.
It doesn't exist anymore, but if you go to Ephesus, you can see this is a massive city.
And it was dominated by this Artemis cult, which is like this woman who is a warrior.
She is a person who provides for herself.
She's a virgin goddess.
She doesn't need a man.
She came down and ascended and the men would serve her and build her temple.
So a very feminist, female dominated culture.
And this is the context with it.
where this Ephesian church was planted.
And then thirdly, we have a biblical context.
We have a cultural context.
And then we have acts, the words themselves.
Let's just look at what Paul is saying so that we can let the clear interpret the cloudy.
Verse 11, we see Paul is affirming something in the church, in the order of the church, and he is forbidding something in the order of the church.
What is he affirming?
He's affirming in verse 11, a woman
should learn.
Now this may seem like a small thing, but back in the ancient world, women weren't invited to that level of doctrinal training or leadership to sit alongside of men, but the New Testament, we see Jesus have both male and female disciples.
Jesus taught men and women together and he empowered men and women to learn the gospel and share with everyone.
And this is what we see happening in Ephesus.
Men and women sitting together and learning together, doctrinal training against the flow of Ephesians
culture.
And this word silent, a woman should be quiet and full submission is a posture of learning.
It's not to say a woman's not allowed to talk in church.
It's a posture.
And this word, I'm going to give you the Greek word just to help you understand the breakdown.
You can say Hezekia.
Everyone say Hezekia.
It's like that white stuff you put on Greek food, right?
Nevermind.
It means to be a learner.
who learns without contention.
It's the same verse used in verse two for a living, a peaceful and quiet life that Christians, we don't want to live contentious argumentative lives where we're always fighting about something.
We want to live the kinds of life where the gospel can be shared and people approach us.
And Paul saying, I want women to learn without a spirit of contention, the posture of a learner who's soaking in the good news of the gospel alongside of their male peers.
And so he's ordering this within the life of the church.
But then in verse 12, we see he's forbidding something.
What is he forbidding?
I do not permit a woman to teach or assume authority over a man.
Now what you can't see is the form of this Greek tense is a present infinitive, which means a woman, I do not permit a woman to be in continuous teaching authority over a man.
And so he's saying the role of elder, the role of pastor of a local church should be held by a man and not by a woman.
And so he gives the reason why in verses 13, 14, and 15.
And again, this role is not given to all men, it's only given to qualified men.
So when we get to first Timothy chapter three, I just wanna point out, the role of leadership in the church in first Timothy three starts with elders and then goes to male and female deacons.
And so the role of leadership within a church is both male and female, but that elder, that head leader, that role is reserved for men.
And verse 13, he roots this in creation.
He says, because Adam was made first, and then he roots it in the fall, and then Eve sinned first, and then he roots it in redemption, but people will be redeemed by childbirth.
Now Paul is not saying to be a woman, you have to have a baby to be saved because that would contradict the entire teaching of scripture.
No, Paul is telling a different story.
He's saying the story of Artemis, the story of
A female goddess, no, that's not the first story.
The origin story is man and women were made in the image of God.
And they fell into sin, but their redemption will come through childbirth.
And so he tells the Jesus story and says, Jesus is the one who you call on when you're in trouble.
He's the one who's ordered the universe and his order is good for human flourishing, for the church and for the human family.
And this is the argument that he's making.
And this is a good thing because the order of God
in the family and in the church.
It's not something that we resent or endure.
It's meant for human flourishing.
And so if we've had difficulty in male, female relationships, difficulty in our families, we want to be curious.
Like, but I was in a family where we were dominated by this or dominated by that.
It's just, it's a trigger for me.
So I just, I can't, I can't, but the beauty is if we open up our eyes and say, God, I'm curious.
I'm curious.
I had this experience.
I have these feelings.
I see what your word says.
I don't necessarily agree or understand, but I want to dig in, I want to understand.
And so as the people of God, I want us to process this together because the most beautiful place to talk about this is not on social media or in the parking lot later.
It's in a family and then in our groups as we open the Bible together and say, what does God say about the roles of men and women in the family and in the church?
And so five things that we know for sure from scripture as we put all of this together, here's the first one.
Men and women are created in God's image with equal value.
Men are not more or less important than women or vice versa.
We see this in Genesis 1.27.
So God created mankind in His own image, in the image of God He created them.
Male and female He created them.
God created two complementary sexes of humans, male and female to bear His image together, equal in essence, dignity, value, and complementary by divine design.
And this is good news.
Men and women are not the same.
And if you think they are, get married, you'll find out.
There's a complementary relationship between what men bring and what women bring.
And if you only have one voice, only the male voice or only the female voice, something is missing.
And so there's a powerful, powerful influence.
of both the men of the house and the women of the house in a sibling relationship that should bring us to this sense of unity.
One of my closest or my closest confidants and advisors is my wife.
She whispers in my ear, she prays for me.
Before I came to teach here, she looked at me in the eye and she said something to my life that I needed to hear.
And this is the power of a woman's voice and a man's voice speaking in a complimentary way in a church
It's a beautiful, beautiful thing that we celebrate, right?
Second thing.
Second thing we see, men and women are partners together in God's mission.
God gave them mandate to fill the earth and subdue it to Adam and Eve as joint partners highlighting their shared responsibility and complementary roles in stewarding creation.
This is Genesis 1.28 from the very beginning.
God blessed the man and the woman and said to them, be fruitful and increase in number, fill the earth and subdue it.
And so men and women are given this mission.
If you wanna see how Paul uses both men and women in his mission, read Romans chapter 16.
It's a list of like 36 names of both men and women and young and old and slave and free and royal and common.
Ordinary people that he's using all these different places with the gift of apostleship and the gift of teaching and the gift of generosity and the gift of service all working together on mission with Jesus.
Third, men and women have equal access to the gifts of God's spirit.
God equips both men and women with diverse spiritual gifts for building his kingdom.
The Holy Spirit gives gifts without regard for gender.
So when you read the Bible, you think about, well, what are the gifts that God gives in 1 Corinthians 12 and Romans 12 and Ephesians four?
No gift that God's spirit gives to human beings is based on gender.
It's based on who he picks and what he picks them for.
And so we wanna be thoughtful about the gifts in this church
happened without regard to what language you speak or the color of your skin or your gender, male or female or your age.
God pours out a spirit on young people and old people and people who've known about him for their whole life and people who just got to know him.
In fact, one of the signs of the coming Messiah and the pouring out of his spirit was prophesied in the book of Joel.
And it was preached at the book of Pentecost.
And here was the sign of the coming of the spirit of God.
I will pour out my spirit on all people.
Your sons and daughters will prophesy.
Your old men will dream dreams.
Your young men will see visions.
Even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days.
Listen, our church, this church, this community needs the gift of every man, woman and child.
And where your gift is not being used, where your voice is not being heard, something is
Missing, so lean into the opportunity to use your gift to help build up this church and your family and the people all around you.
Number four, men are given the role of spiritual headship within the family and the church.
So God intends for men and women to have different yet complementary roles and responsibilities in the family and the church.
And those role distinctions do not arise.
This is important from cultural definitions of masculinity or femininity
but our reflection of life within the Trinity.
Now the reason we believe here at Calvary that this role of men to serve and lead in the family and in the church is rooted in creation and not just a cultural moment here, it's because of what we see in the entire Bible.
So stick with me for a second.
We see in the book of Corinthians, Paul's describing the relationship between the father, the son, and the man and his wife.
And he describes that relationship this way.
I want you to realize that the head of every man is Christ.
And the head of the woman is man.
And the head of Christ is God.
This idea of headship.
Within the Trinity, the father, the son and the spirit, there is a hierarchy.
Jesus would say, I don't say anything the father hasn't told me to say.
I don't do anything the father hasn't told me to do.
He's equal to God, but he submits his life to the father in the same way
Men are called to submit their life to Christ and women are called to submit to their husbands in that relationship.
And so there's this idea of Hechim.
This is also reiterated in the book of Ephesians.
We see it written this way.
Submit to one another out of reverence for Christ.
So wives submit yourselves to your own husbands as you do to the Lord.
For the husband is the head of the wife as Christ is the head of the church, his body, of which he is the savior.
Now as the church submits to Christ, who also wives should submit to their husbands and everything.
Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her.
All right, so I know that I feel like, ah, sometimes this can be like a tense moment, so I'm gonna show you this picture again from the very beginning.
How do we keep the main thing the main thing?
So the interaction between the father, the son, and the spirit, though there's a hierarchy to it, the son submits to the father, there's also mutual submission and shared
Glory and unconditional love within the life of the Trinity.
And the Bible says that the human family and the church are representatives of that way of being.
So that should cause us to think.
And again, it's this tension between, well, what is headship and submission?
And what is this mutual submission and shared glory?
You see, within the Trinity, there is no competition.
The father says, you know, you can worship my son
and I'll receive the glory.
The Spirit says, don't look at me, look at the Son.
The Son says, don't listen to me, listen to the Father.
It's like hot potato when it comes to glory.
There's a humility within the Trinity that we are called to imitate in our marriages and in our healthy churches.
And so these things are both true at the same time.
Listen, man, you are called in your marriages to be the head, to be a person who takes initiative.
Now, if you only get from this message,
that you're the head and you walk home today and you say, I am the head of this house.
Then you know what that means.
You need to get on your hands and knees and scrub the floor.
You need to rub your wife's feet.
You need to read your kids the Bible.
You need to mow the lawn.
You need to be the chief servant of the house.
If you want to be the head of the house, you're called to be like Christ who lays down his life for the church.
So be very careful if you're going to say that.
Because that's what you're called to by the head.
Head means you are the chief servant of everyone in the house.
See, men are given this role.
Men are given this role.
It's part of the Jesus role.
How can I lay down my life to serve my family?
But women are also given part of that Jesus role and they're to submit to their husband's authority as
unto the Lord.
These are both very difficult.
They're very hard for us to think about.
Like, I don't want to be a person who sacrifices and always serves.
I don't want to be a person who submits, but for two equals to do this, I mean, it's God is working in and through our life.
And so ladies, women, there's a inner beauty that God has given you, this inner beauty,
strength on the inside, this beauty on the inside to lead your families, to influence your husbands.
Listen, again, the most influential person in my life is my wife, the way she looks at me, the way she uses her prophetic gift to speak over me, the way she intercedes in praise for me.
Tell me be a better man than I could ever be on my own.
And you can do that for your husband and for your kids.
And if you're a single mom, you can do that with your friends and find in this family of God, this beautiful support for how you can raise your kids and do life and love Jesus in this family.
So I'm gonna call Calvary women to be those type of women who
to demonstrate that type of quiet strength and to use your gifts to make your families in this church a better place.
Can we give it up for the women of this house?
We love you, we honor you.
And Calvary men.
I'm just gonna say this, Calvary men.
This world needs men who step in, take initiative.
This men, this world needs men who are not so insecure they can't let a woman speak into their life.
Men who have to be seen a certain way, but men who can humble themselves, men who can get on their knees and pray for their families.
Men who can serve their families.
Listen, pure research just came out with this research that if a man begins to come to church, 93% of the time his entire family follows him.
Listen, that's the influence you have in your own family.
You might not think your voice matters, but listen,
You matter way more than maybe the culture says or maybe the way you were raised says.
And if you step into that role of servant leadership, your house will change, this church will change, this world will change.
So Calvary men, don't lift up your hands to fight, lift up your hands to pray and lead and God will use your life in powerful, powerful ways.
And this is what it's like to be part of a healthy family where we deal with the tensions where we don't just hear what the world says over here, what the world says over here.
And the reason this is so hard
is because of number five.
Sin is distorted, corrupted, and confused our identities and our roles as men and women.
Men and women were meant to live out our diversity in unity, but sin has distorted that design.
Part of the curse was that a woman's desire would be for her husband, Genesis 3.16, but he would rule over her.
That men tend toward passivity, stepping out of that God-given calling, and then women
will tend to control or fight to have that level of authority.
And that's part of the curse.
It's part of the curse they were experiencing back in Ephesus.
It's part of the curse we're experiencing today in this gender war that the world wants us to pick aside.
I want to show you a quick graphic.
We see this continuum between feminism on one side and patriarch on one side.
Patriarch says, women can't be trusted.
Women are emotional.
They can't make good decisions.
That's why I mentioned being in charge.
And a woman can't tell me anything.
And feminism responds, no, men are toxic leaders and they can't be trusted because they use their power to hurt people who are not as strong as them.
And these opposites are not something we find within the biblical frame.
But if we look at the biblical frame and say, no, this beautiful complementary design of men and women, very different working together to build a family in the church.
Now I want to be part of that.
Maybe you haven't seen it, but I'll tell you it exists.
And when it exists,
It's not something we endure or resent.
It's something that leads to human flourishing for the family of God.
So my prayer for us, as we watch how the gospel is expressed here, that whether you see a woman using her gifts or a man using her gifts or young people or old people, you look like a family.
Like in our family, whoever gets up to speak and read the Bible and pray and share, it's like, I'm just the dad who's proud.
Like, this is so cool.
I'm just watching all these people share and use their gifts to build up my family and the church is the same way.
We want to be the church who sees all the gifts of everyone in this church be used for the glory of God.
And one of the most visible expressions of this beautiful unity of keeping the main thing, the main thing is communion.
You see, in a moment, we're gonna take part
and communion.
It's a reminder that no matter how diverse of backgrounds we come from, no matter how we might be divided by a hundred little things, that we're united because of Jesus.
And the more diverse the group, the more powerful the sense of unity, when you see people that maybe all shouldn't be in the same room together, they're in the same room together, we're all in the same room because of Jesus.
And that shows the power of his kingdom in our lives, right?
So I'm gonna ask you to pull out your communion elements.
I'm gonna ask you if you don't have them, you can raise your hand if you didn't get them, we'll provide them for you.
And I'm gonna say this, just give this quick sort of warning for those people who aren't Christians.
This is not for you to take if you're not yet a Christian.
The Bible says we don't wanna be a person who recklessly takes us like it's some kind of religious ceremony or good luck charm or check thing that we do.
Listen, when you eat this bread, you're saying, I believe Jesus, you came from heaven to earth to die for me.
And I've repented of my sins and I've offered you ownership of my life.
And that's what it means to take communion.
Now, if you came here today and you're like, man, I'm feeling a sense of aimlessness.
Maybe you don't even know how you got here.
Maybe your friend invited you here and you're like, whoa, that was a lot.
Listen, you're not here by accident.
God drew you here.
He's stirring things up in you.
And if there's that sense of like, man, I know that something's missing in my life or someone, I wanna know how to make right
the wrong I've done.
I want to get rid of this feeling of dissonance inside of me.
Then I want you to know that God and a relationship with God is only a prayer away.
I mean, literally in your seat right now, you could, you could say the most powerful words that will ever come out of your mouth.
If you just confess God, I'm a sinner and I need a savior.
And so I give you all of me, even the broken parts and ask you to forgive me.
I believe you came from heaven to earth to pay my ransom to die in my place.
And I believe that you were raised from the dead and now I want to follow you with my whole life.
This is what we call our confession, our prayer of repentance.
And if you prayed that prayer, then take him in you with us.
Today we talked about a whole bunch of things that probably stirred and triggered a whole bunch of things.
And the beauty of communion is we can sit with all those feelings in the presence of God and just say, Jesus, help me sort that out.
All that stuff with politics and sort of like, I got these things.
And there's some people I can't even talk to because of this little thing's become the main thing.
Got that thing with men.
There's men who hurt me.
There's women who hurt me.
I just, I can't let go of that mistrust.
I can't see the beauty and the design that God made.
God, give me, give me revelation, peace so that I can enjoy this beautiful design you've created for the church, for the family, for marriage.
So we're just gonna sit in the presence of Jesus to give you a couple of minutes.
Then we're gonna sing a song over you.
And then we're gonna come back and we're gonna take the bread and the cup together.
So right now,
Take that time with you and Jesus.
Ask Him your questions, lay it out before Him.
He can bring healing and peace, conviction and comfort, and then we'll sing that song over you and take communion together.
I remember who I was.
I was lost.
I was blind.
I was running out of time.
Sin separated.
The breach was far too wide.
From the far side of the castle, you held me in your sights.
So thank you.
for the blood applied.
Thank you Jesus, it has washed me white.
Thank you Jesus, you have saved my life, brought me from the darkness into glory.
The week before Jesus was arrested,
His disciples still didn't get it.
We're all a little bit slow.
They were still arguing over who could sit on his right, who could sit on his left.
Still jockeying for position.
Judas was busy betraying.
Peter was posturing like he would never deny him and he would just a few hours later.
And it's in the middle of all that disagreement
conflict and brokenness that Jesus stood up at a table and he broke bread and he said, this is my body that's given for you.
Every time you eat it, remember me.
Let's remember our Savior and our King together.
On that same night he took a cup and he said, this cup is the new covenant in my blood, it's given for you.
By this blood we are forgiven, we are made whole, by this blood we are made into a family.
Let's drink and remember Jesus together.
Calvary, can we stand and can we give our Savior, King Jesus, a standing ovation for what He has done, for who He is.
He has forgiven us and He has freed us and He has made us a family.
We are sons and daughters of the Almighty God.
We are brothers and sisters in His family and He has a place for every one of us in that family and He is worthy of our praise.
So guys, if you need prayer for any reason at all, we would love to pray with you up here.
But as you leave, make sure you say hi to someone you're gonna spend the rest of eternity with.
Say hi to them, get to know them.
God bless you.
We'll see you next weekend or Tuesday night at prayer.
Have a great week.
Thanks for listening to today's message.
You know here at Calvary, we believe a relationship with Jesus changes everything.
And if you've decided to follow Jesus, we'd love for you to text the word believe to 31352.
So you can find out what it means to follow Christ.
And to learn more about Calvary and all of our campuses, you're free to visit CalvaryFTL.org.